README.md, before:

# GPTComet: AI-Powered Git Commit Message Generator

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/gptcomet?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypi.org/project/gptcomet/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/belingud/gptcomet.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-Python-%233572A5?style=for-the-badge)
![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/gptcomet?logo=pypi&style=for-the-badge)
![Pepy Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/gptcomet?style=for-the-badge&logo=python)

## Table of content

<!-- TOC -->
- [GPTComet: AI-Powered Git Commit Message Generator](#gptcomet-ai-powered-git-commit-message-generator)
  - [Table of content](#table-of-content)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Commands](#commands)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [file\_ignore](#file_ignore)
  - [Supported Keys](#supported-keys)
  - [Example](#example)
  - [Development](#development)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Contact](#contact)
<!-- /TOC -->

## Overview

GPTComet is a Python library designed to automate the process of generating commit messages for Git repositories.
It leverages the power of AI to create meaningful commit messages based on the changes made in the codebase.

## Features

*   **Automatic Commit Message Generation**: GPTComet can generate commit messages based on the changes made in the code.
*   **Support for Multiple Languages**: GPTComet supports multiple languages, including English and Chinese.
*   **Customizable Configuration**: GPTComet allows users to customize the configuration to suit their needs.
*   **Support for Rich Commit Messages**: GPTComet supports rich commit messages, which include a title, summary, and detailed description.

## Installation

To use GPTComet, you need to have Python installed on your system. You can install the library using pip:

```shell
pip install gptcomet
```

Recommend install use `pipx` on Mac or Linux.

```shell
pipx install gptcomet
```
After installing GPTComet, you will have two commands: `gptcomet` and `gmsg`.

```shell
$ pipx install gptcomet
  installed package gptcomet 0.0.3, installed using Python 3.12.3
  These apps are now globally available
    - gmsg
    - gptcomet
done! ✨ 🌟 ✨
```

## Usage

To use gptcomet, follow these steps:

1.  **Install GPTComet**: Install GPTComet through pypi.
2.  **Configure GPTComet**: Configure GPTComet with your api_key The configuration file should contain the following keys:
    *   `provider`: The provider of the language model (default `openai`).
    *   `api_base`: The base URL of the API (default `https://api.openai.com/v1`).
    *   `api_key`: The API key for the provider.
    *   `model`: The model used for generating commit messages (default `text-davinci-003`).
    *   `retries`: The number of retries for the API request (default `2`).
3.  **Run GPTComet**: Run GPTComet using the following command: `gmsg gen commit`.

## Commands

The following are the available commands for GPTComet:

* `gmsg config`: Config manage commands group.
  * `set`: Set a configuration value.
  * `get`: Get a configuration value.
  * `list`: List all configuration values.
  * `reset`: Reset the configuration to its default values.
  * `keys`: List all supported keys.
  * `append`: Append a value to a configuration key. (List value only, like `fileignore`)
  * `remove`: Remove a value from a configuration key. (List value only, like `fileignore`)
* `gmsg hook`: Hook manage commands group(Prototype phase.).
  * `install`: Install the GPTComet hook.
  * `uninstall`: Uninstall the GPTComet hook.
  * `status`: Check the status of the GPTComet hook.
* `gmsg gen`: Generate messages by changes/diff.
  * `commit`: Generate a commit message based on the changes made in the code.
  * `pr`: Generate a pull request message based on the changes made in the code.


## Configuration

The configuration file for GPTComet is `gptcomet.yaml`. The file should contain the following keys:

*   `provider`: The provider of the language model (default `openai`).
*   `file_ignore`: The file to ignore when generating a commit.
*   `api_base`: The base URL of the API (default `https://api.openai.com/v1`).
*   `api_key`: The API key for the provider.
*   `model`: The model used for generating commit messages (default `text-davinci-003`).
*   `retries`: The number of retries for the API request (default `2`).
*   `proxy`: The proxy URL for the provider.
*   `max_tokens`: The maximum number of tokens for the provider.
*   `top_p`: The top_p parameter for the provider (default `0.7`).
*   `temperature`: The temperature parameter for the provider (default `0.7`).
*   `frequency_penalty`: The frequency_penalty parameter for the provider (default `0`).
*   `extra_headers`: The extra headers for the provider, json string.
*   `prompt.brief_commit_message`: The prompt for generating brief commit messages.
*   `prompt.translation`: The prompt for translating commit messages to a target language.
*   `output.lang`: The language of the commit message (default `en`).

### file_ignore

The file to ignore when generating a commit. The default value is
```yaml
  - "bun.lockb"
  - "Cargo.lock"
  - "composer.lock"
  - "Gemfile.lock"
  - "package-lock.json"
  - "pnpm-lock.yaml"
  - "poetry.lock"
  - "yarn.lock"
  - "pdm.lock"
  - "Pipfile.lock"
  - "*.py[cod]"
```

You can add more file_ignore by using the `gmsg config append file_ignore <xxx>` command.
`<xxx>` is same syntax as `gitignore`, like `*.so` to ignore all `.so` suffix files.

This project using `litellm` as the bridge to LLM providers, so plenty providers are supported.

If you are using `openai`, just leave the `api_base` as default. Set your `api_key` in the `config` section.

If you are using an `openai` class provider, or a provider compatible with the `openai` interface, you can set the provider to `openai`.
And set your custom `api_base`, `api_key` and `model`.

For example:

`Openrouter` providers api interface compatible with openai,
you can set provider to `openai` and set `api_base` to `https://openrouter.ai/api/v1`,
`api_key` to your api key from [keys page](https://openrouter.ai/settings/keys)
and `model` to `meta-llama/llama-3.1-8b-instruct:free` or some other you prefer.

```shell
gmsg config set openai.api_base https://openrouter.ai/api/v1
gmsg config set openai.api_key YOUR_API_KEY
gmsg config set openai.model meta-llama/llama-3.1-8b-instruct:free
gmsg config set openai.max_tokens 13000
```

Silicon providers the similar interface with openrouter, so you can set provider to `openai`
and set `api_base` to `https://api.siliconflow.cn/v1`.

**Note that max tokens may vary, and will return an error if it is too large.**

## Supported Keys

You can use `gmsg config keys` to check supported keys.

## Example

Here is an example of how to use GPTComet:

1.  When you first set your OpenAI KEY by `gmsg config set openai.api_key YOUR_API_KEY`, it will generate config file at `~/.local/gptcomet/gptcomet.yaml`, includes:
    ```
    provider = "openai"
    api_base = "https://api.openai.com/v1"
    api_key = "YOUR_API_KEY"
    model = "gpt-3.5-turbo"
    retries = 2
    output.lang = "en"
    ```
2.  Run the following command to generate a commit message: `gmsg generate commit`
3.  GPTComet will generate a commit message based on the changes made in the code and display it in the console.

Note: Replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with your actual API key for the provider.


## Development

If you'd like to contribute to GPTComet, feel free to fork this project and submit a pull request.

First, fork the project and clone your repo.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/<yourname>/gptcomet
```

Second, make sure you have `pdm`, you can install by `pip`, `brew` or other way in their [installation](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) docs

Use `just` command install dependence, `just` is a handy way to save and run project-specific commands, `just` docs [https://github.com/casey/just](https://github.com/casey/just)

```shell
just install
```

Or use `pdm` directly `pdm install`.

Then, you can submit a pull request.

## License

GPTComet is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contact

If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to contact.

Commit message:

docs: archive project and point to CodeGPT alternative
- Update README with notification about the project being publicly archived and recommended alternative: CodeGPT.

Signed-off-by: belingud <1170202353@qq.com>

README.md, after:

# GPTComet: AI-Powered Git Commit Message Generator

> [!IMPORTANT]
> 
> This repo has been public archieved. Recommand to use [CodeGPT](https://github.com/appleboy/CodeGPT) instead, using similar configuration, generate commit messages with `codegpt commit`.
> CodeGPT is more efficient, since it's written in Go.
> 
> The only thing is that these is no default `exclude_list` value. You can use the default value from this project and add the files you want to ignore.
> Use `codegpt config set git.exclude_list "bun.lockb,Cargo.lock,composer.lock,Gemfile.lock,package-lock.json,pnpm-lock.yaml,poetry.lock,yarn.lock,pdm.lock,Pipfile.lock,*.py[cod],go.mod,go.sum"` to set it. Or edit config file manually with `file_ignore` value.
> ```yaml
>   - "bun.lockb"
>   - "Cargo.lock"
>   - "composer.lock"
>   - "Gemfile.lock"
>   - "package-lock.json"
>   - "pnpm-lock.yaml"
>   - "poetry.lock"
>   - "yarn.lock"
>   - "pdm.lock"
>   - "Pipfile.lock"
>   - "*.py[cod]"
> ```

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/gptcomet?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypi.org/project/gptcomet/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/belingud/gptcomet.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
<!-- TOC -->

- [GPTComet: AI-Powered Git Commit Message Generator](#gptcomet-ai-powered-git-commit-message-generator)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Commands](#commands)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [file\_ignore](#file_ignore)
  - [Supported Keys](#supported-keys)
  - [Example](#example)
  - [Development](#development)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Contact](#contact)

<!-- /TOC -->
<!-- /TOC -->

<!-- /TOC -->
<!-- /TOC -->
<!-- /TOC -->

## Overview

GPTComet is a Python library designed to automate the process of generating commit messages for Git repositories.
It leverages the power of AI to create meaningful commit messages based on the changes made in the codebase.

## Features

*   **Automatic Commit Message Generation**: GPTComet can generate commit messages based on the changes made in the code.
*   **Support for Multiple Languages**: GPTComet supports multiple languages, including English and Chinese.
*   **Customizable Configuration**: GPTComet allows users to customize the configuration to suit their needs.
*   **Support for Rich Commit Messages**: GPTComet supports rich commit messages, which include a title, summary, and detailed description.

## Installation

To use GPTComet, you need to have Python installed on your system. You can install the library using pip:

```shell
pip install gptcomet
```

Recommend install use `pipx` on Mac or Linux.

```shell
pipx install gptcomet
```
After installing GPTComet, you will have two commands: `gptcomet` and `gmsg`.

```shell
$ pipx install gptcomet
  installed package gptcomet 0.0.3, installed using Python 3.12.3
  These apps are now globally available
    - gmsg
    - gptcomet
done! ✨ 🌟 ✨
```

## Usage

To use gptcomet, follow these steps:

1.  **Install GPTComet**: Install GPTComet through pypi.
2.  **Configure GPTComet**: Configure GPTComet with your api_key The configuration file should contain the following keys:
    *   `provider`: The provider of the language model (default `openai`).
    *   `api_base`: The base URL of the API (default `https://api.openai.com/v1`).
    *   `api_key`: The API key for the provider.
    *   `model`: The model used for generating commit messages (default `text-davinci-003`).
    *   `retries`: The number of retries for the API request (default `2`).
3.  **Run GPTComet**: Run GPTComet using the following command: `gmsg gen commit`.

## Commands

The following are the available commands for GPTComet:

* `gmsg config`: Config manage commands group.
  * `set`: Set a configuration value.
  * `get`: Get a configuration value.
  * `list`: List all configuration values.
  * `reset`: Reset the configuration to its default values.
  * `keys`: List all supported keys.
  * `append`: Append a value to a configuration key. (List value only, like `fileignore`)
  * `remove`: Remove a value from a configuration key. (List value only, like `fileignore`)
* `gmsg hook`: Hook manage commands group(Prototype phase.).
  * `install`: Install the GPTComet hook.
  * `uninstall`: Uninstall the GPTComet hook.
  * `status`: Check the status of the GPTComet hook.
* `gmsg gen`: Generate messages by changes/diff.
  * `commit`: Generate a commit message based on the changes made in the code.
  * `pr`: Generate a pull request message based on the changes made in the code.


## Configuration

The configuration file for GPTComet is `gptcomet.yaml`. The file should contain the following keys:

*   `provider`: The provider of the language model (default `openai`).
*   `file_ignore`: The file to ignore when generating a commit.
*   `api_base`: The base URL of the API (default `https://api.openai.com/v1`).
*   `api_key`: The API key for the provider.
*   `model`: The model used for generating commit messages (default `text-davinci-003`).
*   `retries`: The number of retries for the API request (default `2`).
*   `proxy`: The proxy URL for the provider.
*   `max_tokens`: The maximum number of tokens for the provider.
*   `top_p`: The top_p parameter for the provider (default `0.7`).
*   `temperature`: The temperature parameter for the provider (default `0.7`).
*   `frequency_penalty`: The frequency_penalty parameter for the provider (default `0`).
*   `extra_headers`: The extra headers for the provider, json string.
*   `prompt.brief_commit_message`: The prompt for generating brief commit messages.
*   `prompt.translation`: The prompt for translating commit messages to a target language.
*   `output.lang`: The language of the commit message (default `en`).

### file_ignore

The file to ignore when generating a commit. The default value is
```yaml
  - "bun.lockb"
  - "Cargo.lock"
  - "composer.lock"
  - "Gemfile.lock"
  - "package-lock.json"
  - "pnpm-lock.yaml"
  - "poetry.lock"
  - "yarn.lock"
  - "pdm.lock"
  - "Pipfile.lock"
  - "*.py[cod]"
```

You can add more file_ignore by using the `gmsg config append file_ignore <xxx>` command.
`<xxx>` is same syntax as `gitignore`, like `*.so` to ignore all `.so` suffix files.

This project using `litellm` as the bridge to LLM providers, so plenty providers are supported.

If you are using `openai`, just leave the `api_base` as default. Set your `api_key` in the `config` section.

If you are using an `openai` class provider, or a provider compatible with the `openai` interface, you can set the provider to `openai`.
And set your custom `api_base`, `api_key` and `model`.

For example:

`Openrouter` providers api interface compatible with openai,
you can set provider to `openai` and set `api_base` to `https://openrouter.ai/api/v1`,
`api_key` to your api key from [keys page](https://openrouter.ai/settings/keys)
and `model` to `meta-llama/llama-3.1-8b-instruct:free` or some other you prefer.

```shell
gmsg config set openai.api_base https://openrouter.ai/api/v1
gmsg config set openai.api_key YOUR_API_KEY
gmsg config set openai.model meta-llama/llama-3.1-8b-instruct:free
gmsg config set openai.max_tokens 13000
```

Silicon providers the similar interface with openrouter, so you can set provider to `openai`
and set `api_base` to `https://api.siliconflow.cn/v1`.

**Note that max tokens may vary, and will return an error if it is too large.**

## Supported Keys

You can use `gmsg config keys` to check supported keys.

## Example

Here is an example of how to use GPTComet:

1.  When you first set your OpenAI KEY by `gmsg config set openai.api_key YOUR_API_KEY`, it will generate config file at `~/.local/gptcomet/gptcomet.yaml`, includes:
    ```
    provider = "openai"
    api_base = "https://api.openai.com/v1"
    api_key = "YOUR_API_KEY"
    model = "gpt-3.5-turbo"
    retries = 2
    output.lang = "en"
    ```
2.  Run the following command to generate a commit message: `gmsg generate commit`
3.  GPTComet will generate a commit message based on the changes made in the code and display it in the console.

Note: Replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with your actual API key for the provider.


## Development

If you'd like to contribute to GPTComet, feel free to fork this project and submit a pull request.

First, fork the project and clone your repo.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/<yourname>/gptcomet
```

Second, make sure you have `pdm`, you can install by `pip`, `brew` or other way in their [installation](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) docs

Use `just` command install dependence, `just` is a handy way to save and run project-specific commands, `just` docs [https://github.com/casey/just](https://github.com/casey/just)

```shell
just install
```

Or use `pdm` directly `pdm install`.

Then, you can submit a pull request.

## License

GPTComet is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contact

If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to contact.
